What do I do if a patient tells me they have a food allergy?														
1	If a patient informs you that they have a food allergy, always check to see if it is listed in HealthTouch on the left side column under "allergies" or "comments"													
														
2	If you do not see an allergy listed under allergies or comments, check the interface notes to see if any allergies are documented here 													
		If you see an interface note that is NOT automatically populating the allergy into HealthTouch allergies or comments, we need to notify Amy Denbow. 												
		This is a problem with the system that needs to be addressed												
														
3	If the allergy is not listed, add the allergy into HealthTouch (see the allergies tab under "to add new allergy" in this excel document) and make a note that the patient 													
	reported the allergy to you. This will block out all foods that are made with or contain the allergen, preventing you from being able to add this to their tray.													
		If the allergy is not available to select, see the next bow below.												
														
4	After completing the call with the patient, immediately call the nurse and inform them of the patient's stated allergy/allergies so that they can update this information in 													
	the medical record	


What do I do if a patient has an allergy that I cannot add in HealthTouch?														
1	While Health Touch is programmed with many common allergies, it is possible for a patient to have an allergy or intolerance that our system does not recognize.													
	If they have an allergy that you cannot add under the allergy heading in HealthTouch (see above), start by listing the allergy under "comment" on the allergy screen													
	You do not need to list a requisition number.													
														
2	Next, navigate to the "likes and dislikes" screen. Search for the allergy under the "ingredients" heading. Do NOT search for the allergy under the "items" heading.													
														
3	Select all applicable ingredients for the allergy and list them as dislikes (see example scenario below)													
														
4	Listing the allergy as a dislike does NOT gray out all food items that are made with or contain the allergen. Instead, a pop-up will appear notifying you that the selected													
	"food item contains the allergen. Do not override this pop-up. It is notifying you that the food would be a danger for a patient with that allergy to consume.												"													
														
5	After completing the call with the patient, immediately call the nurse and inform them of the patient's stated allergy/allergies so that they can update this information in 													
	the medical record. Specify everything that you did in "HealthTouch", including how you documented the unlisted allergy under "comments" and "dislikes" to ensure the													
	patient is not sent foods containing the allergen.													
														
6	Make a note that the patient reported the unlisted allergy to you, that you listed it under "comments" and "dislikes", and that you called to notify the nurse of the situation													
														
														
Example:														
	A patient calls to place a lunch order and they inform you they have an allergy to anchovies													
														
	You see that this allergy is not listed in HealthTouch or mentioned on an interface note, so you attempt to add it 													
	to their profile 													
														
	You do not see anchoives appear in the list of available allergies, so you write it into the comments section													
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
	Next, you click on the "dislikes" tab and search for anchovies under "ingredients"													
														
	You do NOT search for this under "items"													
														
	You select anchovies and all other relevant ingredients, like anchovy extract and pureed anchovies													
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
	You continue to take the patient's order, which includes a chicken caesar salad													
														
	When you go to select the caesar dressing, a pop-up appears notifying you that it contains anchovies													
														
	You do not override the pop up, instead you inform that patient that the caesar dressing contains an 													
	ingredient they are allergic to, and offer a suggestion for another dressing safe for them to consume													
														
														
														
														
	After completing the call with the patient, you immediately call the nurse and inform them of the patient's stated													
	allergy/allergies and everything you did in HealthTouch so that they can update this information on their end													
														
	Finally, you document everything you did in the patient notes tab												